# Welcome to the Documentation for MAVISIM

MAVISIM is a Python tool to simulate images generated by the MCAO Assisted Visible Imager and Spectrograph (MAVIS) instrument. MAVIS is an instrument being designed for ESO's VLT AOF (Adaptive Optics Facility, UT4 Yepun) with plans to go on-sky ~2027. For more information on MAVIS visit <a href="https://mavis-ao.org/mavis/" target="_blank">this link.</a> If you use MAVISIM please cite Monty et al. 2021. 


## Current Version: 1.0
MAVISIM 1.0 is optimised to explore the *astrometric* capabilities of MAVIS. Specifically, it utilises a Fourier approximation of the MAVIS PSF to simulate a monochromatic image of point sources. 

<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Capabilities</p>
<p>
<ul>
	<li>Simulate a full stellar field with built-in <b>PSF spatial variability</b> </li>
	<li>Optimised for astrometric studies </li>
	<li>Models three major sources of astrometric error introduced by the AO system with full user control over each:
		<ol>
			<li>Field variable tip-tilt residuals originating from uncorrected low-order aberrations (dependent on the natural guide star constellation brightness and geometry) </li>
			<li>Field variable high-order aberrations originating from the laser guide star constellation and characteristics </li>
			<li>Static field distortion originating from the adaptive optics module </li>
		</ol>
	</li>
</ul>
</p>
</div>

<div class="admonition danger">
<p class="admonition-title">Limitations</p>
<p>
<ul>
	<li> Monochromatic images only
    <li> Only compatible with an analytical approximate model of the MAVIS PSF using the Fourier method
    <li> Point source input catalogues only
</ul>
</p>
</div>

## Dev Versions: 1.1 and 1.2
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Which Version is Right for Me?</p>
Version 1.0 is designed to give the user the most control over tuning each astrometric error term. Subsequent versions utilising an end-to-end PSF provide more accuracy regarding the PSF but are less tunable. <b>If your aim is to explore the impact of astrometric error terms easily, 1.0 is the version for you, if photometry is your goal checkout versions 1.1 and 1.2 when they're released.</b>
</p>
</div>

If you're not sure which version has what you need, here is a comparison of the current version with the planned upgrades in future versions. 

| Version      | PSF Source |  PSF Field Variability | Wavelength Coverage | Scientific Sources | User Control |
| -----------  | ----------- |  ----------- |  ----------- |  ----------- | ----------- |
| 1.0      | Fourier Approximation      |	Yes	| Monochromatic - see PSF database for options | Point sources only | High |
| 1.1      | End-to-end              | Yes | Monochromatic - see PSF database for options | Point sources only | Intermediate |
| 1.2 dev  | End-to-end 			 | Yes | Broadband - see filter and PSF database for options | Point sources only | Intermediate |
| 2.0      | End-to-end 				 | Yes | Broadband - see filter and PSF database for options | Extended objects | T.B.D.

